We've talked about how GMSL
serializers and deserializers
for display applications differ
from those designed for camera
applications.
Well, now it's time to take a
look at a real part, the
MAX96751 HDMI to GMSL2
Serializer.
The MAX96751 has to perform
three jobs to convert an HDMI
stream into a stream of GMSL
packets.
First, it's a Serializer.
That is, it terminates the TMDS
interfaces that comprise the
HDMI interface, decodes the bit
streams, and converts them to a
simple stream of pixels.
Then it must repackage those
pixels into GMSL2 packets ready
for transmission to the
Deserializer.
2nd, in some applications at
least, it has to pretend to be a
display of some type.
You see, originally HDMI was
meant to connect a video source
at first ADVD player or a Blu-
ray player to a display, usually
ATV set in the HDMI world.
The display tells the source
what kind of resolution and
frame rate it can support, and
the source adjusts its output to
accommodate whatever the display
needs.
So we have to tell the video
source a bit of a white lie,
that the Serializer is actually
a display, and we're going to
talk about that more in just a
moment.
Third, the Serializer has to
handle a few special cases.
See HDMI can send two video
streams on the same cable, side
by side, line interleaved or
pixel interleaved.
And most cases the Serializer
will decode the two images and
send them over separate GMSL
pipes.
OK, that's the big picture.
Now let's drill down into the
block diagram, fresh from the
data sheet and over on the left.
That's the HDMI interface, a set
of buffers, a serial to parallel
converter, a clock recovery PLL,
and the TMDS decoder and HDMI
controller.
Now what comes out of this block
is a fully decoded video stream
and potentially audio samples as
well.
Going down the left side, we
find the rest of the HDMI
interface starting with the DDC
logic.
That's the display data channel,
and that's how the HDMI source
finds out what kind of display
is attached.
Now this is where we need to
pause to talk about the edit
tables.
That's extended display
identification data.
The edit mechanism works like
this.
When a display is attached to an
HDMI source, the source can read
the display's edit tables to
determine its capabilities, its
horizontal and vertical
resolution, its video frame rate
capabilities, supported pixel
clocks, and so on.
In the consumer space, that's a
great thing.
It means you don't have to
program your set-top box to tell
it what kind of display the
device is attached to.
But you don't generally find the
MAX96751 being used in the
consumer space.
It's designed more for closely
engineered applications like
automotive or industrial
systems.
And that means, in many cases at
least, the HDMI source is a
system on chip that already
knows what kind of displays at
the other end.
It doesn't need the HDMI sync to
tell it.
In those systems, there's no
need for the edit information.
Once the HDMI link is
established, the HDMI source
will begin sending data at what
it knows is the appropriate
resolution and frame rate.
But in some applications, the
HDMI source may still expect
edit information, and that's why
the MAX96751 contains a block of
registers to contain the edit
table if the source needs it.
Now you'll need to program the
table if it's needed when the
Serializer powers up, and we'll
see how that works.
When we look at the example,
skipping the control channel for
just a moment, we find the power
up sense and the HPD buffer.
HPD is hot plug detect.
All HDMI sources provide 5 Volt
power on one of the pins.
The MAX96751 senses this and
returns an indication that power
has been detected on another
pin, the hot plug detect or HPD
pin.
Now moving right, we come to a
watermark generator.
We've talked about watermarking
before.
It's a method to insert a
pattern in the video stream to
ensure that the video isn't
frozen, repeating the same frame
over and over.
The possibly watermarked video,
the audio from the HDMI
interface, and the control data
bound for the Deserializer are
all delivered to a set of Fifos.
Now Speaking of audio, the audio
interface block is represented
just below all this logic and
you can see there are two
interfaces.
The audio block contains 2 I
Square S interfaces, an ingress
interface represented by the WS,
SCK and SD pins, and an egress
interface carried on the
WSORSCKOR and SDOR pins.
the OR suffix indicates that
these signals are carried over
reverse, that is, over the GMSL2
reverse channel.
From the deserializers point of
view, you have a full duplex
audio channel in addition to the
audio that comes over the HDMI
link.
Moving to the upper right, now
we find some blocks that ought
to be pretty familiar, the GMSL2
protocol chain.
The block labeled GMSL2 protocol
contains the packetizer and
packet scheduler, and whatever
emerges from this block gets
scrambled, encoded, serialized,
and passed to the CML
transmitter.
Hey, nothing we haven't seen
before.
Below these blocks you'll find
the reverse channel receivers,
kind of a mini Deserializer that
manages just audio in the
control channels.
As the packets are decoded,
they're routed to the
appropriate blocks, some to the
device control block, some to
the audio block, and some to the
control channel block to be
potentially passed to an
external interface, Isquare C,
UART, or spy.
You know, that's one of the nice
things about GMSL2.
Every link is full duplex for
control and status information
and for audio.
Finally, in the lower right
corner is the error detection
block, and it contains the line
monitor pins and the error
output pin.
Now we're ready to talk about
configuration, and here I have
good news and more good news.
The good news is that to get a
link going between the
Serializer and the Deserializer
in single video link mode is
pretty simple.
You just set the power up
configuration pins as you need
and the GMSL link should just
become active.
A few register rights and the
HDMI link will activate as well,
and you'll be passing active
video.
Now, if it seems to you as
though I'm being a little bit
vague describing the
configuration of the HDMI port,
well, you're right, because if
you look at the register table,
it's pretty daunting.
There are hundreds of registers,
many that demand settings for
which there isn't really a clear
best way to set them.
That's where the more good news
comes in.
ADI has a configuration tool
that will set all those
registers for you, and all you
have to do is describe your
configuration and the tool will
figure out the best register
settings and generate a
programming file.
Getting the configuration tool
is easy.
On the landing page of every
GMSL2-part you'll find a link
for tools and simulations.
Follow that link and you'll find
the GMSL Configuration tool.
When you run the configuration
tool, you can select your
Serializer and Deserializer
components here.
To configure the display setup,
choose Tools, Video Config, then
Display Config from the menu.
Here you can provide details
about how you want the system to
handle aspects of the display
stream.
Then export a script file for
programming the part.
Let's dissect one of those
programming files.
What I'm showing you here comes
from the actual output of the
configuration tool for a known
working configuration.
First, we disable line fault
reporting on the negative output
pin in the evaluation kit.
We connect using coax cable and
we don't need to error check the
coax shield.
So we turn off error detection
on SIO A minus by writing the
value 0 to register 4.
The next set of lines loads the
heated table.
Now the HDMI source might never
ask for that.
For example, if it's your own
SoC connecting to the
Serializer, you already know the
display parameters.
Nevertheless, if the HDMI source
needs it, well, here it is.
That sequence begins by
deasserting the power detect
signal.
That's performed by writing zero
to the RXHDC control register at
address hex 20F5.
Then we write the bytes of the
eded table to the set of
registers starting at hex 2E00.
Now in our case, we're going to
write these registers all the
way up to two EFF.
That is, we're writing the full
complement of 256 register
addresses.
And then finally we write a one
to register hex 20F5.
Now that tells the HDMI source
that surprise power has finally
been detected and a new device
has just been plugged in.
And now I mean, if it wants, the
HDMI source can read the EDID
table over the DDC channel and
configure itself for the chosen
display.
And how do you get the EDID
table data?
Well, there are several ways.
One sure way is to Snoop the DDC
channel of an HDMI interface
with similar parameters to the
display you want to use.
You can also build the table
yourself.
The DDC information format is
public, so you can build the
programming file yourself.
And if you need additional help
with a step, well, you can
always contact ADI support.
Next, because the display in
this demonstration is a
relatively low resolution panel,
we're going to operate the
interface in the older, slower
HDMI 1.4 mode.
The interface can also run at
the newer, faster HDMI 2.0 mode,
but for this demonstration, HDMI
1.4 works just fine.
Now the next few lines we don't
need to cover in detail.
They configure the finer points
of equalization on the HDMI
lanes and really could probably
have been made part of the HDMI
1.4 or two point O switch.
But for maximum flexibility, our
engineers left these bits
accessible.
You know, just in case.
The HDMI configuration concludes
by setting the HDMI auto start
bit and now when HDMI video is
available at the HDMI ingress
port, it should be conveyed to
the GMSL2 transmitter.
Now the last thing is to
configure a couple of GPIO ports
to be controlled by the host,
and that's it.
But notice, even though all the
registers are documented in the
data sheet and you can see
exactly what the configuration
tool is doing, well, you don't
really need to dive that deep at
all.
Get the pin configuration right,
tell the configuration tool
exactly what it is you need, and
just let the computer do all the
hard work.
Next time we're going to look at
the MAX96752 display
Deserializer.
See you then.